welcome to slash forward
in this video we're going to try not to
lose sight of our goals as we evaluate
your chance of coming out on top of the
scenarios presented in saw three
be sure to hit that like button if you
welcome escalating brutality in your
daily life
to start i'll unpack the storyline to
see what we can learn
let's get to it we open back with
officer matthews
chained to a pipe with nothing but an
empty gun a flashlight
and his feelings he finds a hacksaw
nearby and
reads the room which is giving him a
little hint
however despite his motivation to live
he can't bring himself to do it instead
the tank lid is again
put to good use as he punishes his foot
for acting like a little [ __ ]
this allows him to slide the shackle
over what was once his ankle
we then find a tactical team plasma
cutting their way into a room
and the scene prompts them to call in
resident jigsaw expert carrie
she's initially scared that they found
eric's beautiful corpse
and is relieved to find it's just your
standard grunge rocker who was held in
the center of the room by chains
the recording reveals he was born into
privilege but has chosen to squander his
life as a repeat criminal so
he's suddenly being offered the chance
to break free of the chains that bind
him with only a minute 30 before the
shrapnel bomb goes off
he chooses the band-aid method this
ultimately proves to be more
time consuming due to the necessary
scream time between each ring
ultimately resulting in his failure gary
haunted by eric's disappearance is glad
to put this behind her when they get
back to policing it's noted how unusual
the scene is
john kramer was in terrible shape when
they left him last and he would be
unlikely to weld the door shut
precluding the possibility of escape
carrie tries to wash away her troubles
but is assaulted by a ghostly apparition
as she reviews the evidence she slowly
comes to the realization that she's
being watched
taking no chances at all she fires
several rounds into her closet
killing her neighbor but then discovers
this was just some sort of
unusual unmanned video capture device
but she still gets abducted she wakes up
sometime later in an intricate gothic
nightmare as it turns out she's just too
damn good at solving mysteries of the
dead because she is
similarly dead on the inside so her
affirmation test involves a rib cage
splitter with a key submerged in acid
and a one minute timer she fiddles
around a bit and then goes for it
hopefully not with her dominant hand
she gets the key and undoes the padlock
but finds herself still surgically
connected to the device
her kidnapper then walks in for a brief
moment of recognition and then it's time
for the big show we then swoop in on a
couple in trouble they find themselves
adrift
unable to connect and as lynn prepares
to dip out for her shift at the hospital
chris hits her with that real stuff what
is it you want from me chris
my divorce at the hospital things are
falling apart while she deals with her
personal problems
she's convinced to step out and provide
a hand and quickly saves a child's life
before dropping the mic on her way back
out
back in the locker room she begins to
lose touch and i don't know
just seems like she may not be fully
appreciating her life anymore so she
gets snatched up
we then learn it's grocery day at the
old jigsaw workshop
where lynn is getting fitted for a
special trap she's wheeled in to meet
john kramer who was
very impressed with her yelp reviews and
is looking for a second opinion on his
condition
it is unfortunately not looking good
unfortunate for her
because her game will be to keep john
alive to prevent a shotgun caller from
blasting her in the face
they have another test subject elsewhere
in the building who's going to be going
through some trials
and john would like to stay alive to
bear witness to the fruits of his labor
at that moment we meet up with jeff
who's waking up inside his box
he has a tape that goads him about
wallowing in hatred after a drunk driver
killed his son
his tests will bring him closer to the
man responsible and forgiveness will be
key in finding salvation
as he knocks over his shipping crate we
take a brief flashback to establish how
on the edge jeff is as he does his best
bobby de niro and then takes a break
from that to berate his daughter for
having the audacity to disturb one of
her brother's toys
like he's using it back in the present
jeff wanders down a hall until he finds
his first test
opening the door he grabs a nearby plank
and proceeds cautiously
amanda observes this from their ancient
surveillance system and then lets her
spiritual father know that it has begun
she is then compelled to get up in
lynn's ass about her insistence and jon
be hospitalized
around here they like to work with what
they've got jon gets her calm down
reminding her of the rules but
then goes into shock lin enlists
amanda's help and eventually gets them
stabilized
and i think they may be becoming besties
it's official now
surgery is on the horizon and it has to
happen here
jeff eventually finds a likely door
which leads to a walk-in freezer that
contains a nude woman
strung up he finds a tape player that
identifies danica here as the lone
witness to his son's death but she ran
after it happened which put a hindrance
on the overall application of justice
he'll have to dig deep to find
forgiveness and reach among the pipes to
retrieve the key
as she gets sprayed down with water he
takes a little time to grow as a
character which is detrimental to
danica's health
when her pleading for compassion finally
cuts through he stretches as hard as he
can to get the key
losing a bit of his face skin in the
process and it takes a bit too long
helping him learn that he has to be a
little more prompt with his puzzle
solving
a great lesson for next time back at the
workshop lin takes a moment to snoop
around but amanda is always watching
she's cool about it demonstrating that
due to the conditions of the collar
she has total control over the situation
so it's better to focus their efforts on
the impending home brain surgery but
first a brief flashback as amanda gets
nostalgic about the old days
showing us that there's a real art here
to the delicate preparations
after she escapes jon came to visit her
to have a conversation about fear
with this on her mind it begins to seem
like amanda may be too emotional for
this line of work
then jon tells her about a packet of
instructions he has for her in his desk
in the event he doesn't make it through
after that we roll back to jeff making
his way down a more
friendly hallway at the end he's given a
brief reminder of his trauma to gear him
up for his next challenge
when he opens the door we finally get a
trap initiated by tripwire
oh feels like coming home he hears a man
stuck in a container of some type
begging for help
but this time he goes straight for the
tape before making any decisions at all
but it's on a platform that results in
awkward eye contact
turns out this is judge halden who gave
his son's killer a six-month
sentence the key to release him is
inside his son's possessions which will
have to be incinerated to release the
key
if he chooses not to halden will be
drowned slowly in rancid pig slurry
again jeff finds some quantity of
satisfaction in the suffering a real
detriment to his success
he faces down some internal struggles
but chooses personal growth he saves the
judge who only ended up swallowing
approximately one quart of home juice
exciting but lynn is focused on her
preparations
before you know it she's in there
cutting away that skull to relieve the
unbearable pressure
utilizing some simple home tools she
first makes his skull resemble a wiffle
ball
before removing several layers with the
precision of a warhammer enthusiast
with a fresh vent john gets the
sensation that he is skydiving nude
and in a way he is as he starts to
flatline into oblivion amid his
hallucinations he makes an
unexpected proclamation
that immediately sets amanda to falling
off the wagon as she does she again
flashes back to better times
their first big challenge everyone gets
put into place and john sedates himself
they get everything all cozy and set up
and then kill the lights
the ladies then meet back up once things
are more cleaned up and settled and
amanda
unsettles things but big jon comes too
and calls her off
as jon laments her emotional nature we
go back again to see that she was so
weak she had to return to the scene to
end
adam's suffering in a terribly painful
way meanwhile jeff and halden have found
the next door
jeff is gifted a bullet and tries to get
his mind right but the judge can't shut
up about the harms of vengeance
jeff kicks her open setting off another
tripwire presented to jeff
the driver of the car who is crucified
on the rack
an elaborate torture device designed to
twist his body up like a pretzel to get
the key all jeff has to do is take a
shotgun blast
as he again weighs his options the rack
starts doing rack things halden checks
the glass finding it to be shatterproof
and confirms a hair trigger so he
switches to trying to snap
jeff out of it as tim develops a couple
of nasty open
spiral compound fractures to the
forearms halden begs him to do something
appealing to anything that may motivate
jeff to take action once the legs start
going he finally begins
he actually removes the key masterfully
but halden can't hear about it because
of his ear
unfortunately jeff is unable to figure
out the contraption or find the lock in
time offering only some mild comfort in
tim's final moments as his head gets
twisted completely around
back in the surgery room jon asks lynn
about her husband
she acknowledges they've been drifting
somewhat but now she'd
really love to see him again jon casts
aspersions about infidelity and we learn
a little bit more about his psychology
i don't condemn murder and i
despise murderers okay john through her
insistence that she's experienced
incalculable suffering he questions why
she focuses on this rather than on
spending time with her daughter and
husband
amanda then reads her packet of
information and pops back in to let jon
know that jeff is done with his test
but he's not out yet so she defies his
instructions to let lin go
she begins to have some survivor's
jealousy and attempts to make moral
decisions outside the game
which per flashback she is prone to do
we see that amanda had returned to
matthews possibly to put him down like
adam
but he had already escaped he ends up
going to town on her with a pipe but his
little foot flap proves to be a
hindrance
regardless he still manages to brutalize
her pretty thoroughly
until she manages to jam him up again
jon uses this as an example of how he
has to constantly clean up her messes
because she's not fully formed yet but
she doesn't buy that
and longs to feel the satisfaction that
he gets from the games and he tries to
reassure her this is all part of a
bigger plan
he begs her to heed his instructions due
to the mutual importance of the plan for
both of them
meanwhile jeff makes his way out of the
maze of terrors acquiring the firearm
that matches his bullet and he emerges
into the workshop
right as they reach a tension crescendo
amanda goes her own way
shooting lin in the back causing jeff to
fire a round off into amanda's neck
jon then reveals that lin is jeff's wife
and by working outside the confines of
the game amanda has managed to ruin
four lives with one action we then find
out i want to play a game
lynn and jeff saga were nested tests
inside of the larger test for amanda
again she proved herself too eager to
kill and inflict suffering
developing games that don't teach
lessons or offer a means towards
salvation
through this final test she's shown
herself unworthy of succeeding john as
jigsaw and so she bleeds out on the
floor
he then turns his attention to jeff
encouraging him to think back on his
evening and really try to learn
something meaningful he has the choice
to exact his vengeance
or find forgiveness in his heart
i forgive you and he chooses both a
truly enlightened gentleman
luckily his method of murder results in
a slow death because it gives jon the
chance to produce his
in case jeff kills me tape it reveals
that jeff's daughter is trapped in a
room somewhere with limited oxygen
so as lin's head explodes and the movie
ends jeff's epic adventure is just
beginning
i'll be honest that ending has me
excited about the next movie which i
don't think i've ever seen but for now
let's examine the ins now to the
scenarios provided to get a feel for how
we could make our way through now
there's an
obvious criticism here about how some of
the traps precluded the chance for
success
this has been the case before but it is
somewhat forgivable here since they
wrote it into the screenplay we'll have
to chalk it up to amanda's inexperience
and
quite frankly what is the confusing and
convoluted
nature of john cramer's moral philosophy
she's already here because she
personally craves acceptance and
leadership if you layer everything else
on top of that
it's just a recipe for misplaced
motivations so
her first presentation was the chain
trap this one must have been remotely
controlled because the timer was so
short and there wasn't a tripwire to be
found anywhere
obviously it was designed to result in
death although once the bomb went off it
was only a matter of time before the
authorities cut their way in
if you could free yourself and survive
the blast you would likely survive until
help came but is that possible
initially i thought it foolish to rip
the rings through the skin
assuming that they had likely been
clamped on in some way this seems to be
indicated as a possibility when an
officer holds one up and an obvious gap
is visible
however based on the door and other
contraptions amanda is clearly a
talented welder
perhaps she had him out long enough to
actually weld in solid rings
at any rate both options are pretty bad
because running a rough
metal ring through your skin is a pretty
terrible sensation
if you could get them off you would find
yourself in an uncleared area and while
the victim was basically torn apart by
the explosive it appears to be a
shrapnel bomb
the real danger here is the debris
entering your body not the blast itself
it's possible you could find a closet or
take cover behind a counter and survive
but that's assuming you could remove the
rings which i'm going to say
is an impossibility even if you could
detach the rings without ripping the
skin
it would be slow going and the timer is
real tight but assuming that you can't
remove them without ripping there are
two major problems
the first is that your boy is over here
plunking these things out like their
nipple rings but they're not they have
achieved
full thickness penetration of the skin
certain areas of the body would require
a tremendous amount of force to work
them free which would be incredibly hard
to do
even if you could the final issue here
is that the last ring appears to have
been run
around his jaw bone if this is a solid
ring there is
no way in hell you're gonna pull that
thing out it's just not gonna happen
moving on to the rib cage spreader this
is another one that was set up for
retribution rather than rehabilitation
it's a lot more simple than the chains
so we won't take too long discussing it
basically you're presented with a mild
challenge to unlock yourself
however unlocking doesn't remove the
fact that the device is still surgically
implanted so if unlocking doesn't turn
it off and just strand you there it's
going to end up going off regardless
your best bet is to first get it
unlocked
you have to go into this assuming your
persecutor is acting in good faith i do
wonder if the container could have been
tilted just enough to drain out some of
that acid to make it a bit easier
but that's really a secondary problem
again there is a very limited time to
act here but once you get the lock
undone the only possible method i could
see to get out of this is to first
fight the urge to try pulling on the
splines they're not coming directly out
you'd have to try leaning to and fro to
see if you could unseat them from
beneath your rib cage
first on one side then the other the
first side would be the hardest but then
you'd be more free for the other half
this would again require you to slowly
scrape metal through a hole in your skin
but you may actually live the next would
be lin's shotgun collar
this entire contraption seems a bit
janky and i'd be really hesitant to mess
with it we know it locks on but we don't
really see what kind of locking
contraption it is
also it's on the back and lynne is being
watched most of the time
they establish fairly clearly that the
tools and devices in the workshop would
be of little help to her if she's acting
alone so it's unlikely there's a
combination of actions available that
would have resulted in her release
she also knows up front that her test is
secondary to what else they have going
on
in her situation it seems the best
chance for success would be to just do
your job and wait
this is essentially what she did and at
the end he did give the command to
release her
finally from here we move on to jeff's
series of purity tests
honestly i watched through trying to
make note of various objects available
nearby that may be useful and that he
could bring in with him but that is
mostly unnecessary
jeff's tests by the standards of the
series so far are almost
trivially easy in his case it's more
about personal struggles
the keys are easily reachable and they
require some sacrifice from him but not
a lot it's all about moving past his
hatred but if he can't save the witness
it's not clear how he's gonna save
anyone else
all he had to do to get danica's key was
literally reach for it it's a true
failing of his character that he was
unable to pull this off
i mean what i've gathered from the plot
points they revealed was that his son
was hit by a drunk driver witnessed by
one person and that the culprit was
arrested on scene and given a relatively
light sentence by the judge
it's not clear to me what the witness
testimony would have done here she can't
attest to tim's intoxication and she's
not responsible for sentencing
if jeff holtz are responsible for that
due to her lack of testimony then what
is he holding against the judge
the judge made a decision absent vital
witness testimony
i don't think that's the case but it
doesn't make sense to hold them both
equally responsible it really gives the
impression that jeff
spent a lot of time angry but not much
time on thoughtful introspection this
reveals one possible avenue
out of this scenario which is to
proactively engage in mindfulness
meditation in your daily life in case
just such a scenario arises
these factors are basically equal with
the judge and tim
i know it hurts but who among us could
listen to someone dies slowly rather
than burning a few toys
i get nostalgia but your son is not
those toys
in fairness to jeff this was his one
successful trap
finally the rack so tim was the focus of
jeff's vengeful thoughts for a long time
but honestly this device is
so brutal i don't see how you could
allow it to twist up even a little bit
without trying to stop it
interestingly despite his double failure
here he did manage to delicately remove
the key
unfortunately it tripped the trigger on
the release which would have been
unexpected simple safety precautions
could have saved the judge you should
always consider what's down field from
your firearm
incidentally this is also the one trap
where utilizing a tool could make it
easier
safer and quicker jeff passed a clothing
rack at one point that had various
articles of clothing on it along with
some wire hangers
just bend the hanger to lengthen it and
hook it toward the bottom or side
then use the hook it already has to snag
the key you can
intentionally fire the gun allowing you
to jerk the key around as much as you
want
i'm not totally sure what happened after
that if it was just too late or if the
contraption was too complex to figure
out how to use the key to stop it so
maybe there would be other complications
to consider but that's why you want to
be determined and steadfast in the
beginning
do the thing you know how to do first in
order to maximize the amount of time you
have to figure the other things out
also you should have up to two other
brains there to help you work through it
if you didn't previously allow them to
die or spread their cranial contents all
over the floor
amanda's situation may warrant a brief
comment here her game wasn't really trap
reliant and its outcome was highly
unpredictable
however i said in the last episode you
have to play the game to win it to her
credit
she didn't even know a game was afoot
and why would it be she's already proved
herself worthy of life
multiple times maybe she's not jigsaw
material but come on
so with all that said it seems that the
odds of coming out ahead on this one are
pretty good so long as amanda wasn't the
one in charge of your body i think the
audience is supposed to find jeff's
commitment to his rage surprising and
unfortunate this would imply that the
standard expectation is that most of us
have a reasonable capacity for empathy
and compassion with that being the case
his tribulations despite the fact they
were case specific would have been
fairly easy to navigate for most normal
people
since you are obviously exceptional i
believe you would fare well above the
standard expectations
before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of headshots
as an fyi i have a website set up where
you can support the channel through
donations or merch
any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of life force and
under the skin with others to be added
over time and if you enjoyed the video
i'd love for you to become part of the
channel by subscribing thanks for
watching